---
published: true
layout: post
title: 'How I Study For Microsoft Certifications'
description: >
  What tools I used to help study for and get the DevOps Engineer Expert (AZ-400) and the Azure
  Developer Associate (AZ-204) certifications.
modified: {}
tags:
  - Microsoft
categories:
  - Learning
---

I have recently obtained both the DevOps Engineer Expert (AZ-400) and the Azure
Developer Associate (AZ-204) certifications and was asked by a colleague if I
had any tips for studying. I don't have any quick shortcuts or magic tips but
I'll share here the three things I like to do before taking an exam.

One important thing to disclose here is that I'd been working with these
products for years before attempting to formally study and pass the exams so
that did factor in to how well I did on the exam as well.

## Step 1 - Complete All The Free Online Learning Courses

At the bottom of the Microsoft page for each certification there are a list of
learning paths that cover the topics included in the exam. These usually will
have a lab element to them that you can complete for free. This can save you a
lot of money when compared to doing lab work on your own dime and the courses
themselves are pretty good quality.

## Step 2 - Pluralsight Courses

I have a subscription to Pluralsight and they usually provide video courses that
will prep you for the exam. I find it helpful to skim through these on 2x speed
to fill in any information gaps left by the free online courses.

## Step 3 - Practice Exam

I've tried a few different practice exam solutions and I've found the questions
and answers on the official practice test's to be the most accurate. Most of the
time this has been with Pearson Vue. Their practice test platform has been buggy
and difficult to work with in my experience but at least their questions and
answers were accurate. I tried a few other platforms that were a better user
experience but their questions and answers were all over the place.

## Additional Questions

### Why not instructor led training?

While this may work for some people, it doesn't for me. With an instructor led
course there is no way to skip over a couple of hours of content because you're
already familiar with it. Which means you have to sit through stuff that bores
you and for me that means I lose focus. Self-paced stuff is the best for me.

### Did you buy any books?

I have an [Oreilly](https://www.oreilly.com/) subscription that gives me access
to a ton of technical books and some Pearson practice exams. I did skim a few
books but for the AZ-400 and the AZ-204 the books weren't really geared towards
passing the exam so there was a lot of fluff to sift through.
